Unknown Speaker  1:59  
Hi Peter,

Unknown Speaker  2:01  
nice to meet you I can hear you loud and clear are you doing where you're coming in from?

Unknown Speaker  2:16  
It's very far away. It's very late already for you isn't it? He couldn't find it at the time Yeah, he really pretty much everything done there. But thank you them for me.

Unknown Speaker  2:39  
It's very convenient.

Unknown Speaker  2:40  
It's 2pm to set lunch. I don't want to complain all thanks for making this possible for a human need time for me.

Unknown Speaker  2:50  
Sir.

Unknown Speaker  3:38  
Yeah, sounds cool. Yeah, kicked on your side. pretty sad to share the link. And so some, some people I know. So it's a it's a cool format. It's also cool focus, like especially CV is something that we also try to venture more into. It's very interesting, very exciting field. But very early, right. So very, very early stages of the industry. So it's not really venture capital vesicle yet or this lot of the business model owned. But yeah, maybe that's also the same touch after after this fireside chat and have an exchange on specific opportunities that we see some.

Unknown Speaker  4:50  
Yeah, I guess so. We We are a team of four founding partners and each of us found their personal journey towards working and climate change mitigation through different channels we personally I have worked on, I have a degree in energy economics, I work very, very already on energy efficiency, renewables. And then I started my career in consulting did a lot of stuff in the energy space as well. A lot of country electrification work and in Africa, but also industry work in Europe. And I was taking data at McKinsey. And then I left and I had my own consulting firm for a while in focusing only on climate tech, because I thought, well, this is like really the challenge that I want to work on. It's a well, it's I think, like the topic or the biggest challenge of our generation, it's wonderfully complex on an intellectual level. So I'm excited about working on this. And the and I just felt drawn to, to this to this space. And then I just work on climate tech, stuff across hydrogen, packaging materials, all that kind of stuff. And since they're based in Zurich, you know, this, he knows he can go around the investment world, right. So there's a lot of investment activity going on here. I met my co founders, Adrian, and Mike through a common friend who's also active in the space. And they have been tech entrepreneurs, had successful liquidity events, and have been very active as angel investors. And they said, Well, look, climate change kind of sucks. Let's do something about it. What can we do? We're good at investing in startups. So we need let's let's just to this right, and then they onboarding, Elena was a startup lawyer, she had her own law firm before, she was also very keen to work on this topic. And then, and then I joined the team a bit later. And we and I brought in, you know, that type of industry expertise in the field. So that's a team of four. And then we basically said, well, let's let's build a venture firm that embraces climate change, or climate change mitigation as a business opportunity. And because we think it's like the biggest trend, there is baby for generation. So if you want to, you know, live in this world and a couple of decades still, then we need innovation, we need tech. Let's invest in this. And they've created the firm around. Exactly that guiding principle. Yeah, I mean, I think, for one, it's an immensely complex problem, right? So to reduce greenhouse gas, look, everything we do in our economy is kind of connected to greenhouse gas emissions, right. And so basically, we are, we are climate tech fund, actually, we are a generalist fund, right. So we invest in a lot of different areas, we an Ag, and food and energy and transportation, and advanced manufacturing being carbon capture, they're completely different. And if you really want to have meaningful impact in the space, you kind of have to dig into the science. And that's a, you need to have the right network of people, you have to have the right expertise. You can't know it all yourself. Right. So it's extremely complex. So it takes a lot of energy and persistent to keep on digging and keep on understanding and finding the right levers to pull to not only make a profit on those investments, but also to have a meaningful impact. And that brings me to the second when it has a lot of impact or impact in the investing world kind of like the buzzword at the moment. Everybody wants to have impact, but nobody really knows. You know how to define it. Everybody has their own definition. Some measures and don't there's no standard. So it is but as the StG says some stuff out there, but there's nothing in the venture capital space that really measures or gives a guideline on how to measure and the impact of an investor. We try to do this, we have a methodology to do it.

Unknown Speaker  9:45  
But it's like our own thing. It's not it's not wouldn't stand the test of science, for sure now, but it gives an indication I guess, like, you know, a rough estimate at least. So that's a little bit the problem so that you see in the come when you look in the space of climate tech receipt or impact receipts, climate is the easiest because you can put a number on it right tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents mitigated or taken out of the air. But a lot given within the climate space intentionality is oftentimes the measure of of impact. But intentionality doesn't get as good as their right. So it's a that's a big, big challenge, a big conversation right now in this space, how to measure impact. And maybe another challenge. Not a bad for us, but also for the industry is that you might see that a lot of money has been thrown into the industry right now climate tech, everybody wants to invest. I think this year, there was more investment in climate tech VC than in the last five years combined. So a lot of money flows into it. But most of that money goes into, like series A and later stages. And there's not a lot of money going to the early stages, right. So we have the BMS in the early stages are currently funded. But but you can see that there's a little bit of an imbalance, I guess, chasm from you know, you have, at least in Europe, you have all these great entrepreneurs with great ideas, they come from the universities, they benefit from Grand programmes, and then they have to kind of get the product market fit going. And then they experience it. There's like this gap of what there's not a lot of money. Once you have that product market fit, then I mean, there's a lot of cash to make it to scale it. But like in between, I have a feeling that there isn't enough programmes yet. Or enough companies yet that they're engaged in those early stages.

Unknown Speaker  12:20  
Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  12:22  
That's a good question. I

Unknown Speaker  12:23  
mean, it's, it's a tricky one. So we are, we are Founders Fund, right. So all of our team members founded at least one company, all of our investors are entrepreneurs also. Right. So we, we try to be understanding and entrepreneur together with our portfolio firms, but we don't get operational, right we, we help we try to be hands on on a strategic level, we try to get into the board as often as we can, depending obviously, on our ticket size, we get involved on request, oftentimes on stuff like fundraising for the companies for later rounds, structuring deals, HR topics, we need a new co founder, or we need a head of marketing, stuff like that. Sales, leveraging our network, for sales, but also for whatever type of partnerships. That's how we get involved. Mostly, oftentimes, it helps the within the team, there's a lot of expertise in growing a company from you know, three, five employees to like 50 to 6070. Beyond that, then it's probably better people that can help right? So we feel like in the early stages, I think we can we can we can give good advice. But we we try not to be too hands on because most founders don't know best with what they're trying to do. Any key lessons?

Unknown Speaker  14:15  
Well,

Unknown Speaker  14:18  
as an investor or as a starter for investors, of course, for your startups. It's tough to say given that we invest in so many different areas, right. So there's, there's always kind of two types of startups. There's either the visionaries that have like this great vision and you want to get there, right, and then for them, it obviously matters a lot to monitor for the regulatory environment, especially in climate tag. Does your business model fly only when there's carbon prices in place like you take knology do you have the IP rights secure? Do you understand the market dynamics correctly? Does like the visionaries, right? And then there's the kind of execution type of startups where it's very, you're trying to do you're not innovating on a technology, but rather on the business model. And then you really have to have your unit economics under control know exactly, you know, what the dynamics are of, of your revenue versus costs? How do you do the financing, we have a lot of startups that rely on smart financing schemes to really understand, you know, how do I get access to capital to what kind of capital? I guess that's the difference of those two types? I think, in general, planning ahead of time is important, right? Obviously, you want to focus on your day to day, but liquidity planning is something that a lot, a lot of times don't take, all too serious. And then you always end up in a kind of a crunch to try to save it and keep the business going. That's something that I am, I always found a bit interesting that that's not on the top of the agenda all the time. And yeah, I think that's, that's a couple of the lesson learned for for the startups. Yeah, it really depends on on the very specific type. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  16:42  
But specifically as a fund, yeah. Yeah. It's an interesting time, because we are startup ourselves, we want to write and we started, I think we have the three years ago that it took us a year and a half to fundraise our first fund. We use this first time now to kind of create some put some, you know, force powers on the road, invest, create a portfolio, we've now invested in 11 companies, we will enter a new fundraising round for our own fund next

Unknown Speaker  17:19  
year.

Unknown Speaker  17:20  
So until end of the year, we aim to invest another four to five startups. And then with that portfolio at hand, approach new investors to grow, grow bigger, to not only brought our like, extend our portfolio, but also follow on on on to existing companies. I guess that's the next biggest, the next next milestone for us. Yeah, but otherwise, I think, continue to build a brand in this space. Across Europe. I think we've done the job in the last two years. So far, I think we've been one of the first purely climate tech focused funds in Europe, there was pay do the work for us as a couple of others, really great investors. And I think we in this space, specifically, in the climate tech space, that's very collaborative, right. So it's not in Europe, you still have

Unknown Speaker  18:25  
more

Unknown Speaker  18:26  
investment opportunities than investors. Right. So um, there's, you don't take away ideas from others, you work together with others on making deals and finding the right projects to support. So for me, personally, for us as a company, like building and strengthening those relationships with existing funds invested in existing investors, but also new ones is also key for us,

Unknown Speaker  18:53  
that's for sure.

Unknown Speaker  19:06  
Because it makes me sound very old. To my younger self. No, that's a very, um, what's that? It's a good one. I think, um, I think a lot of I'm pretty happy where I stand right now professionally and personally. And I think a lot of this came by chance, right? So it's not like I planned to do what I want to do right now. It wasn't always my great vision. But I knew that I always wanted to be part of the solution for this kind of problem, or like to work in this area. And I think having this you know, Northstar, and always follow it and create a network around it and talk to people and tell them like hey, this is what I'm passionate about. That is we The key enabler so that opportunities come to you. Because as, as you put yourself out there and Su, offer your your support and help on technical topics, if you're really, really passionate about that will always radiate back and into opportunities for, for yourself. So if you want to be active in a certain field, and it's hard for you to make a transition into it at the moment, there's always ways to engage in a way or to create a network in a way. And to slowly slowly move into move into those into the area where you're really passionate about, and I think that worked pretty well for me. Yeah, I think there's a couple books related to the area I really liked.

Unknown Speaker  21:01  
I really liked

Unknown Speaker  21:02  
the last book of Bill Gates or to call again, how do you avoid a climate disaster? That's he does some good thinking. I really like his high level, you know, point of view on the problem. And also this focus on the economics of the problems. That's, that's really interesting, because he looks at it from a capitalistic point of view, we live in a capitalistic world, we have to find a capitalistic solution for the problems that I liked very much. I think one of the books I'm most gifted was how to change your mind by Michael Pollan on the new frontiers of psychedelic medicine. Really interesting book of everybody was interested in the use of psychedelics and treating depression or anxiety diseases, and that's just a really well written, really good, good way to explain things that are hard to put on words. And I'm currently reading a fictional book, which is, does not prove anything but entertainment. The three body problem by teaching Leo was a Chinese science fiction author, really, really cool book a bit, a bit sciency nerdy, but very, very entertaining. projecting our society very far into the future. So that's, that's a good read. It's very entertaining. Yeah, those

Unknown Speaker  22:42  
Yeah, sure.

Unknown Speaker  22:57  
I am working on the investor side or startup side. Well, there's I really like the guys from pale blue. Have you heard of them? amplus jakobson. He's very easy, very interesting guy. I would highly recommend you to talk to him really like him. Then there is if you want to talk to somebody who is neither an investor nor a startup but more of an expert in the field of climate tagged and Patricia eckler as opposed to name we work together in

Unknown Speaker  23:42  
Ethiopia for a while. He founded a think tank on moving towards zero together ETH Zurich. Excellent sentiment chat. Happy to make an intro if you're interested.

Unknown Speaker  23:58  
She has a very deep understanding of the industry in general on the politics prime especially in Europe, pushes forward some very interesting projects and I really like her also as a good friend. Then, how many you want do you want me to keep on shooting? One more. Do you know Oliver? I don't know his last name from ocean rain forest. He's the founder of ocean rain forests. I heard he's like the ivory tower of of the industry with a list in here. Everybody knows him. He's really well is very well connected. He does. He does a lot of different things. I worked with him all of a years his name I have no ocean rain forest. I'm happy to make an intro Oliver. Great. As I will talk to him here he seems to really know a lot about this industry and also the as Have you heard of the cutter production guys cut up or ocean these guys if you're really interested in you know the ocean space just send you the link and team I just have when I see the face and I usually you know I hear Ross Brooks he's a he's a really good guy to talk to he's very inspirational Russ Brooks and catapult

Unknown Speaker  25:48  
show

Unknown Speaker  25:54  
likewise

Unknown Speaker  25:54  
um yeah well you let me know when you menu when you put this online so like memory.

Unknown Speaker  26:06  
Sweet, cool,

Unknown Speaker  26:08  
cool endeavour. Let me know if you want an intro to any of these people and you're looking forward to hearing from you.

Unknown Speaker  26:17  
See you later.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
