Unknown Speaker  0:01  
She's an Australian unikl now. But, but, but yeah, so I was there and kind of reached out to Dan, just to get your thoughts on, you know, basically investing and running a fund and all that kind of stuff. And, you know, during that call, he was telling me about what his plans were for region. And at that stage, he was kind of just an idea and getting ready to get started. And, you know, when he talks about the ambition, you know, his goal, or our goal is to move a billion dollars of capital into catalytic climate startups over the next 10 years, and kind of that ambition for me just didn't really want to talk about anything else anymore. And it was just paying to get involved. And so I was still in the UK and did a summer internship with with region, and then finished my degree at Oxford, and then decided to move back to Australia to join down in the region team full time. Yeah, and since then, it's been a pretty amazing experience, I feel quite fortunate to be, you know, part of a fund from day one, which is, you know, a really interesting time to be to these funds. So we've got, you know, we've been going through the fundraising process, we subsequently got to first close, we've made our first couple of investments, you know, we're now Yeah, you know, up and running, which is really exciting, and to hiring and growing. And, yes, it's been pretty, pretty amazing experience.

Unknown Speaker  2:11  
Question, what lessons have we learned? You, I think one thing is, there's probably a couple of things that we had, as bypass this thing that we've been able to validate, which has been really exciting. So the first is that, you know, there's a global talent moving into the climate space. So we kind of thought that, you know, mission driven bounded with the climate mission would, would have a really unfair advantage in attracting and retaining top tier talent. And, you know, that was based on some of the trends and reporting and studies that we've seen about, you know, people wanting to be more mission aligned with their work, particularly younger generation of workers, you know, going to be values aligned and stuff like that. So, and we've seen that played out like this over and over and increasing volumes. You know, we've got speaking to founders who have left Google, Facebook, Airbnb, SpaceX, Tesla, and are all kind of flowing into the system, wanting to work on climate, because it's the biggest problem of our generation is the world isn't inhabitable in 20 to 30 years, then there's not much point in doing anything else. And, you know, it's kind of an interesting global challenge. I don't think there are many other examples where, you know, we've required the whole of the human race to work together for something so large and make such a big change. decarbonizing the global economy. So it's a pretty, pretty cool thing to work on. And yeah, we're just saying heaps of talent. And, you know, there's groups like work on climate that are kind of springing up to, to really tap into that, where, you know, they're becoming resources for people who are leaving rocket ships and want to work on climate. So that's quite cool as well. And then the other hypothesis we had was the one I told you about, you know, being globally focused. And so, yeah, I think a lot of the solutions were backing the market is global from day one. You know, whether you and so, you know, we've seen for us, if we were just geographically restricted in one area, we'd probably only see part of the picture and so it's been really amazing. You know, when you're looking at a small niche like soil carbon where it's a relatively A nascent field, being able to compare kind of old, the, you know, the top five or 10 Solutions across the globe and, and then make your investment in the one that resonates the most with you is a really, I think, massive advantage, as opposed to kind of just picking the one that happens to be in the geography that you're domiciled in. And so I think, you know, that's, that's one part of it. And the other is just actually, you know, being able to do that. I guess one of the results of COVID is that everyone is much more comfortable meeting and doing business, and even making investments over zoom, and doing things remotely and working remotely and collaborating across time zones and things like that, it really has seemed to have opened up kind of national borders and the globe, to be able to do that stuff. So, so yeah, I think we're kind of fortunate in our timing there. But that those two things have, you know, they're really cool to say.

Unknown Speaker  6:18  
Yeah, yeah. I mean, we hope to be able to travel and, and, you know, meet with many more people in person, but at the moment, you know, we're making it work. And in some ways, there's, there's an advantage to that.

Unknown Speaker  6:52  
So many, it's hard to, you know, it's hard to kind of narrow your focus, because there's a lot of really cool companies being formed. But, you know, for us, at the moment, we're kind of exploring the nature based solutions, value chain, you know, so I think, you know, I think net zero doesn't mean zero emissions, it means, you know, as low emissions as possible, and then some carbon removal to get us net, to zero below. And so our options for carbon removal are part of nature based solutions, or industrial solutions. And, you know, I personally think it will probably need both, but it feels like niche based solutions are a little bit more scalable at the moment. And, and so, you know, we think it's a really interesting area, whether we're talking forestry or blue carbon from the ocean, or soil carbon, you know, there's some really interesting options to harness nature and kind of restore how ecosystems become carbon sinks. And, you know, there's a bunch of problems to solve across that, that value chain, you know, from marketplaces, to validation measurement to supporting project developers, helping landowners. And so we're seeing a lot of interesting innovation there. You know, trying to unlock and scale that kind of market as quickly as possible. I think another is kind of, you know, alternative production methods. So synthetic biology and food in particular has got it

Unknown Speaker  8:42  
really exploding. You know, I think everyone's familiar with the old proteins. But, you know, along with me is the chocolate, coffee is palm oil, there's

Unknown Speaker  8:57  
cotton, you know, textiles and fashion, in general, there's a lot of things that we produced today in relatively unsustainable ways. And, you know, I think there's a huge amount of momentum in the space finding old production methods that may be more scalable and better performing and cheaper, but also much better for the planet. So that's super exciting. When you know, we're definitely keen on that, you know, dairy cheese. We've met a company the other day that are looking at cell based crustaceans that ever realised that you know, lobster, farming and crab farming was so in carbon intense and things like that. So that's quite a cool area to know. Now, the trend that we're seeing a lot in at the moment is kind of intersection of FinTech and climate. So You know, there's some huge mega trends that have been happening outside the climate world, right with retail investors, democratising access to equity markets and things like that through platforms like Robin Hood, and obviously, crypto and stuff like that. And that feels like there's a heap of kind of momentum and demand for retail investors to access asset classes that they've previously, you know, it's been difficult for them to invest in. So, you know, if you look at the portfolio of someone who's relatively wealthy, and, you know, the sophisticated investor, by legal definition, often looks different to kind of the typical portfolio here that your investors might have. And so democratising access to things like renewable energy infrastructure, to land ownership, to agriculture, things like that, we're seeing a lot of momentum there. And also, you know, again, driven kind of by a lot of consumer demand for moving assets, out of areas that aren't mission aligned or, or vision aligned them. So, you know, we've seen it at like endowments, and colleges and things like that have divested out of oil, and gas, and fuel. In Australia, we've seen super funds that are popping up that, you know, a plan, ethical investors, future, future super, and things like that. And so I think, you know, we continue to see more of that, where people are starting Neo banks, for consumers, who don't want their deposit funds, or their savings, planting, you know, new coal projects and things like that. At the moment, you have very little control over what loans, you know, when you, when you deposit money in the bank, that doesn't just stay there, the bank uses that to make loans and generate income. And those loans could be anything, right, you have very little control over what to do. So we're seeing people trying to take much more control of, you know, guaranteeing that they go to investments that support, renewable instead of infrastructure, funds, and things like that. So that whole area of kind of FinTech and climate just feels like, you know, it's exploding at the moment as well. And it's exciting, right, because there's a huge amount of retail investment. That could be, you know, going to better use, and there's also, you know, the need for us to scale really proven solutions, like solar and wind just requires a heap of capital and a low cost. So it does feel in many ways, like a great match.

Unknown Speaker  13:26  
You know, next for us is, is, you know, we're continuing to, to build the reagan firm. You know, we've, we've got a, we're looking at a bunch of interesting investments at the moment. We're looking to publish some of our sub sector theses. We're hiring for a couple of roles yet, so it's a really exciting time. I think. Yeah, we're very fortunate to be in a position now be able to support amazing founders. And, and, you know, we've got some portfolio companies now that, you know, we want to roll up the sleeves and, and help as they kind of hit their next milestone. So, you know, that that's kind of what's next for us. You know, we've got a pretty big goal for the next 10 years. So there's a lot of lots of work today.

Unknown Speaker  14:34  
You know, I think I think it's a great time to get involved in climate tech. You know, it's, it's, it's the opportunity to work on really exciting problems and really make an impact and it's the time to do it, you know, you know that the next 10 years, the next decade, like on a geological scale. A geological timescale is a millisecond. But sometimes, there are certain kind of inflection periods in the history of our planet that are really important. And I feel like this next 10 years is one of those, you know, the IPCC report, released this week kind of confirms that. So, you know, I think it's a great time to get involved. And a great time to work on this. And, you know, both from a, from an impact perspective, but also from a financial perspective, you know, the guys at Union Square ventures, which is one of the most probably successful venture funds, globally, they just had a huge exit with Coinbase. They've talked about climate being, to, you know, to this decade, what cloud computing was the last decade, you know, there's such a huge name for decarbonisation, and there's such huge momentum from both government and business, to get their data to create trillions of dollars of opportunities. And so for anyone who's thinking about starting a business, I couldn't think of a better space to, to build something. There's a long list, you know, drawdown is kind of one of the Bible's that people look at. Right, right, and get across the space. There's a book called 2014, that is kind of a really positive and optimistic look at what our life could look like in 2040. If we do make some of these changes, yeah. The idea is not just to avoid climate catastrophe, right. The idea is that, you know, as we moved better and smarter and more sustainable production systems, we, you know, we create a much better way of living and a better quality of life. As 2040 is a great book about that. You know, from the startup side, I really like the hard thing about hard things by Ben Horowitz. I think that's the name of it. Which is kind of a great, you know, kind of eye opener for anyone joining into this space, so they know what they're getting into. What else and you know, there's some great fiction books as well, Ishmael, and the monkey wrench gang and you know, there's a real history of beautiful climate literature. That's not old. Yeah, likewise, Matt. Thanks for taking the time to chat and say hello. Sounds good. Awesome. Thanks. Bye, enjoy. Enjoy, can't talk to you later. Bye.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
